+++
title = "Variance, inter-trait correlation, heritability and trait-marker association of herbage yield, nutritive values, and morphological characteristics in Italian ryegrass (<i>Lolium multiflorum</i> Lam.)"
date = "2015-01-01"
authors = ["J. Wang", "N. O. I. Cogan", "**L. W. Pembleton**", "J. W. Forster"]
doi = "NA"
publication = "Crop Pasture Sci., 66(9)"
publication_short = "Crop Pasture Sci., 66(9)"
abstract = "Italian ryegrass (Lolium multiflorum Lam.) is one of the most important temperate forage grasses on a global basis. The present study estimated trait variance, inter-trait correlation and broad-sense heritability (H2) for herbage yield, nutritive values and morphological characteristics of Italian ryegrass, and analysed associations between these traits and single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) markers. A field-based, spaced-plant nursery experiment was conducted to assess 960 genotypes from seven cultivars and breeding lines, in a randomised complete block design with four replicates. Significant correlations, broad ranges of variation and significant genotypic variance components were identified for 18 measured phenotypic traits. Moderate H2 estimates (0.36-0.52) were obtained for nutritive values, compared with low to high H2 estimates (0.20-0.69) for yield over five cuttings, and moderate to high H2 estimates (0.40-0.78) for morphological traits. Within- and among-cultivar variation ranged from 40.0% to 95.1% and 4.9% to 60.0%, respectively, depending on different traits. Association analysis identified 65 significant SNP-trait gene associations involving multiple genomic regions, which warrant further validation. The implications of trait correlation and heritability for selection and improvement are discussed."
url_source = "https://doi.org/10.1071/CP15070"
+++
